[DOC-666][v2.25.1] pgvector with indexing (#26429)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/explore/ysql-language-features/pg-extensions/extension-pgvector.md

SELECT category_id, AVG(embedding) FROM items GROUP BY category_id;
```

> ## Indexing in YugabyteDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Vector indexing in YugabyteDB
```

SELECT category_id, AVG(embedding) FROM items GROUP BY category_id;
```

> ## Indexing in YugabyteDB

Reviewer 2: Can we use "Vector Indexing" in YugabyteDB.

{{<tags/feature/tp idea="1111">}} By default, vector search in YugabyteDB performs exact nearest neighbor search, ensuring perfect recall.

To improve query performance, you can use approximate nearest neighbor search, which trades some recall for speed. Unlike traditional indexes, approximate indexes may return different results for queries.

Supported index types are:

> * HNSW

Author: not sure @ddhodge, @lingamsandeep are there any other types coming in future?

> * HNSW

Author: I checked the offical GH repo for pgvector, there are types for it, but one is what we're supporting I guess for now. https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector?tab=readme-ov-file#indexing

Correct me if I'm wrong. @lingamsandeep

> * HNSW

Reviewer 2: Yes. In future, we will add support for all the types supported by pgvector.

### HNSW

YugabyteDB supports HNSW (Hierarchical Navigable Small World) indexing, which creates a multilayer graph to enable efficient high-dimensional vector search. HNSW offers faster query performance but requires more memory and has longer build times. You can create an index before inserting any data into the table.

Add an index for each distance function you want to use.

> #### L2 distance

Reviewer: @lingamsandeep What are these? Can we explain a bit?

Reviewer 2: Can we use this ? 

Vector distance functions measure similarity or difference between high-dimensional data points. Choosing the right function depends on the use case, such as search, ranking, or clustering. The following distance functions are supported by YugabyteDB :

- 	Cosine Distance: Measures the angle between two vectors. Used for comparing direction rather than magnitude. Best for text similarity and recommendation systems.
- 	L2 (Euclidean) Distance: Measures the straight-line distance between two points in space. Best when absolute differences in values matter, like in image recognition.
- 	Inner Product: Measures similarity by multiplying corresponding elements and summing them. Often used in ranking and recommendation models, where larger values indicate higher similarity.

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON items USING ybhnsw (embedding vector_l2_ops);
```

#### Inner product

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON items USING ybhnsw (embedding vector_ip_ops);
```

#### Cosine distance

```sql
CREATE INDEX NONCONCURRENTLY ON items USING ybhnsw (embedding vector_cosine_ops);
```

> Supported types are:

Author: as per this below doc link, supported types refer to HNSW section support

https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector?tab=readme-ov-file#hnsw see this.

* `vector`

> ### Index Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Index options
```

> HNSW indexing in YugabyteDB allows fine-tuning with the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can fine-tune HNSW indexing using the following parameters:
```

> * `m`- the max number of connections per layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `m` - specifies the maximum number of connections per layer.
```

> * `ef_construction`- the size of the dynamic candidate list for constructing the graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ef_construction` - Specifies the size of the dynamic candidate list for constructing the graph.
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: For example:

CREATE INDEX NONCONCURRENTLY ON items USING ybhnsw (embedding vector_l2_ops) WITH (m = 16, ef_construction = 128);
```

> A higher value of `ef_construction` provides better recall at the cost of index build time / insert speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A higher `ef_construction` value provides faster recall at the cost of index build time / insert speed.
```

### Limitations

> 1. Concurrent index creation is not supported yet.

Reviewer: bullets
